So I have here a 48 MHz crystal oscillator from KDS
which dates from probably the late 90s and it's in this quite small
surface mount ceramic package and I'm quite interested to know what's actually inside one of these
I think we all know what's inside these typical metal can
crystals without any oscillator component. It's just the
bare quartz crystal that's been metalized
and I think some of us have probably seen videos about what's inside those
through-hole metal can
crystal 'oscillators' quite often they'll have either a normal PCB or a ceramic PCB and a 8-pin
driver IC and the crystal.
But these smaller devices
I'm, not quite sure how they do it. Is there going to be a PCB in here or is it just the whole [metal can] quartz package?
And is it just going to be direct wire bonding from the die to the quartz piece?
Or have I just been lied to and this is actually a MEMs device. So let's just cut it open and take a squiz.
So I think I should just be able to cut the lid off this thing with a pair of side cutters
Although I'm going to do it off camera because it's a bit hard here
So I've got the lid off and surprise surprise there's a crystal inside.
Although I don't see the driver although I suspect it's under the crystal.
It was a bit difficult getting the lid off because I thought this gold bit here this fillet
I thought this was what was holding the lid on but actually it's directly under the lid on this silver bead here
Which I think is probably solder [or a laser weld]
And that's what I had to cut. I made a bit of a mess on the right hand side
So taking a close look now at this angle, we can see just under the metalized section of the crystal some
gold colored wire bonds as well as what looks like a
silicon die
So I suspect i'm probably gonna have to break this crystal to have a look at underneath it. Okay, so I think I can just
lever this thing out and break off the silver epoxy on the left here,
and yeah, that did it, and yeah there's the die. So I have my macro lens on now to take a closer look
and we can see the
Piece of quartz crystal was resting on three places here of the package two of these on the left
Are the actual
gold-plated pins that are
Connected through a wire bond to the actual
Die and the other one's just a plain piece of ceramic to hold it up
I'm quite surprised actually that it's just held on one side
So zooming in and taking a look at the actual silicon now
Unfortunately, I can't zoom in very much so we won't be able to figure out exactly what's going on
Although these large repetitive features here are definitely transistors
This one here is probably an output totem pole transistor
These might have something to do with
The quartz driving probably is maybe part of a buffer
This one here might be part of a regulator as this thing can operate off either 3.3 volts or 5 volts
and
These transistors here. I'm not too sure what these are doing
This random looking mess over here is probably the logic that drives everything
It's probably just a divider to divide the higher quartz crystal clock down to the 48 MHz
It doesn't look like it's complicated enough to be a PLL or anything
These large metallized features over the left here. I suspect this is either
selective metallization
During manufacture or maybe fuses that can be cut with a laser later on
they're probably to select how many times the divider divides the
crystal frequency
It does look like there's some text and logos and probably a mask copyright here
Although unfortunately, I can't zoom in enough to see exactly what they say
So taking a closer look at the quartz crystal now
You can see it's a pretty thin piece of core that's been cut into a rectangle
And it's got that quite typical frosted look to it and that quite typical overlapping and metallized pattern on it
although
interestingly
On the outside facing side of the crystal there's this sort of deposited something or rather on it
I suspect in order for the crystal to be as accurate as they claim. This is probably part of the
Factory calibration and trimming. I'm not quite sure how they do this. I reckon would be a very interesting machine that does this
It would also explain why this is in a ceramic package because if in order to trim the device
You have to put it in a sputtering machine at a [high] vacuum. You really don't want your plastic package to be out gassing everywhere
And it also explains why having a lid to your package is so useful
So that's what's inside one of these surface mount ceramic crystal oscillators, it's pretty interesting